Welcome to JLog the Java based Prolog Applet.  You should already be familiar with the Prolog language and concepts.  If you need information on the Prolog language, check out the Prolog Information section.JLog provides five different facilities, Consult, Query, Debug, Animation, and Help that appear in their own pane.  To use one of these facilities click on the corresponding button at the top of the window.  The pane for that facility appears.  You may interact with the pane to complete your task.The Help pane is split into two areas.  The Topic list appears on the left, and the Help text appears to the right.  Click on a help topic to view the help contents in the Help text area.Before performing a query, you must consult your Prolog source code. This is performed from the Consult pane. Enter your prolog source code into the Source text area, either by typing or pasting it from another editor, provided your Java environment supports cut and paste.  Click on the Consult button at the bottom right of the Source text area.  Consultation success or any errors are displayed in the Status text area.The Query pane is where queries are performed.  Enter your query as a Prolog expression in the Query text field, and then press the Query button.  Output from your query appears in the Output text area.  If your query requires user input, enter your Prolog expression into the Input text field and click the Input button to accept.  Click the Retry button to find more solutions to your query.  Click the Pause button to pause the query, and click on the Continue button again when you are ready to continue.  Click on the Abort button to cancel your query.  Buttons are only enabled if their service is available.The Debug pane contains options for program execution and the debugging tools interface.  If the Debugger On check box is set, then the debugging tools become available for the next query.  The Abort On Unknown Predicate will abort on an unknown predicate if set, and will just fail on the predicate if unset.  This is useful to catch some program errors.  In brief the debugging tools permit you to step through the executing prolog code resulting from the query.  Using tracing you can watch interesting predicates as they run, and using breaks lets you pause the program when interesting predicates occur.  Some of the tools let you see how a query proof is progressing, or how a query was proved.  For more information about debugging a program, see the Debug Facility section.The Animation pane is a graphics region that Prolog programs can draw to using special JLog predicates that provide simple animation services.  For more information on drawing or displying animations in this area, see the Animation Predicates section.   