The Query pane provides the facilities for issuing Prolog queries, displaying textual program output, and accepting user input.To begin, enter the period ('.') terminated Prolog expression for your query into the Query text field.  You may do this either by typing, or by pasting text from another editor, provided your Java environment supports this. You can also specify the text to appear in this text field by using the "query" parameter within the <applet> HTML tag.  See the Applet Parameters section for more information about this parameter tag.To start the query, click on the Query button, or press the [return] key when the Query text field is active.  Any previously running queries are aborted and the new query starts.  A query terminates when nothing more can be proved, or when the user aborts the query.  You cannot perform a query during a consult operation.  Wait until the consult operation completes before starting a query.  For more information on consult operations, see the Consult Facility section.To find other solutions to your query, press the Retry button.  When no more solutions are available the query is done.Click the Pause button to temporarily pause the query.  The Pause button becomes the Continue button.  Pausing is useful if the query is producing  lots of output that you wish to read before continuing.  A paused query is still active.  Click the Continue button to continue running the query.Click the Abort button to terminate the query immediatly.If the query requires user input the Input text field and Input button become enabled.  Enter the period terminated Prolog expression for your query into the Input text field.  You may do this either by typing, or by pasting text from another editor, provided your Java environment supports this.  To accept your input, click the Input button, or press the [return] key when the Input text field is active.Textual output resulting from the query, including the query itself and any results, appear in the Output text area.  You may also edit the text in this area.  Click the Clear button to erase all the text in the Output area.If debugging is active, then the Debug pane is activated when the query starts.  See the Debug Facility section for more information on debugging.